Good morning everyone, welcome everyone. Again, we restinten our beautiful motivation of Dzorchen
and appreciation,
and as well as, again, particularly again, this is the teaching of the Buddha.
As you heard so many times, this teaching is the essence of the teaching of the Buddha Shakyamunu.
Buddha gave so many teachings that found as 84,000 teachings, all nine years after teaching.
This Dzogchen teaching, what we try to do in practice and talk, is the essence of the essence of
the essence of that teaching.
And therefore, we are one of the very fortunate and lucky.
We have this opportunity to engage, to deepening and touching the nugget enlightenment quality
right here,
without long distance, detour in different ways. It's really wonderful, it's special.
As long as we have the appreciation, and we follow the Buddha's teaching, this is what it is.
There's nothing higher, better, deeper, more profound, more special than this.
And we actualize that with our joy and appreciation, the joy for effort and devotion.
Truly, this is what the God of Dzogchen practice, rich enlightenment, many hearing method practice,
rich enlightenment.
Here is our practice, the enlightenment, rich enlightenment.
All those great master lines, and we have been words, everyone practice this one and rich
enlightenment.
Today, we are in the same path, same spirit, same level of that teaching, we are following that.
And therefore, there's every reason to bring joy and appreciation.
This is not just for accidental, that we are connected with this.
Truly, this is our inheritance. Today, we are reconnecting back to that inheritance, that trick,
the inheritance of our forefathers and mothers, their teaching, their practice, their legacy, their
truth.
And therefore, it is very important to strengthen, activate and preserve that with joy,
appreciation,
and love and devotion, with graceful, grateful. Those are also in samsara we need.
It's not just in the dharma, we have those qualities, what we call, those are decent guys and girls
.
Those are the decent couples who have those qualities, joy and appreciation, gracefuls.
For those who don't have even, they are worse than dogs, drugs, that's what we call.
Therefore, re-strengthening this quality and importance and then practicing is our responsibility,
our inheritance, our destination, our goal.
So therefore, re-strengthening that with, again, joy and appreciation and devotion.
And with contrast with that, as a great master always reminded us,
re-strengthening of the vastness, motivation of the bodhicata, and skillful means motivation of the
very unattain,
combined to it, because today's our teaching and practice is the very unattain, the essence of the
teaching.
Therefore, with vastness, motivation of the bodhicata, we combine this skillful means motivation of
the enlightenment,
combined to it, then it makes perfect sense, perfect practices.
Without the general opening the teaching heard that we practice, I mean we heard so many times,
without the compassion, without the loving kind in the compassion,
no matter how much profound that teaching is, it won't bring the result.
We have to practice, our dzokki practice has to be tender.
Our teaching practice, dzokki teaching has to be soft, gentle, smooth, appealing.
That is compassion, that is love. Otherwise, dzokki practice will become dry, dry, just a hundred
percent.
But that makes sense. Therefore, for those reasons, I mean again, many teachers, masters often say
it,
and we heard so many times from the great master, kekki padish hara luchas.
The compassion is so important.
The essence of this is the essence of the word of teachings, actually.
When you have the compassion, there is no suffering, no difficulties, no troubles,
because the nature of compassion is great, great, blessfulness.
Great blessfulness is free of the suffering, the difficult troubles.
It makes it tender, it makes tender heart, soft heart, open heart, relaxed and calm,
consideration, understandable, all those follows with this compassion combined together
with the great enlightenment, dzokki practices, all the skills we need more of it.
So those are important to understanding.
Again, we understand that with that foundation, with that platform, with that stadium,
then we are going to lift up in the dzokki practice, dzokki practice,
which is, again, combination of the compassion and what's the united target.
That is what dzokki practice is.
That is our lifting up, the enlightenment, or lifting up the realizations.
And now, with those thoughts, and we follow the text itself.
Again, this text is the teaching of the Buddha and the teaching of God.